DPDP Consent Manager project

two step process:

1. Consent Management Software

2. Integration with ABDM

As of now only step 1


Consent info from gazzate


1. Consent Management Software

Acts as Middle layer between existing HMS Software and there database with there patient database


Flow of state when patient comes to hospital

1 Patient walks in to Hospital A OPD
New patient, no prior records anywhere. Gives their mobile number and name to front desk.

2 Front desk — HMS (Bahmni/eHospital/Practo)
Front desk registers patient in their existing HMS
Name, age, mobile, address entered as always. Patient gets a Hospital A patient ID (e.g. PA-00234). This is normal HMS registration — nothing changes for the front desk.
HMS fires webhook → POST https://your-api.com/webhook/patient-registered {patientId: "PA-00234", mobile: "9820XXXXXX", hospitalId: "H-MUMBAI-001"}

3 My consent manager
My system receives the webhook and checks if patient exists
Hash the mobile number → check your consent vault. First visit anywhere → new record. Returning patient from another hospital → existing record found.
patientKey = HMAC_SHA256(mobile + hospitalSalt) existing = db.query("SELECT * FROM patients WHERE key = ?", patientKey) // New patient → proceed to consent capture

4 My consent manager — DPDP consent
Tablet kiosk shows consent form to patient
Patient reads purpose-specific consent: "Hospital A wants to collect your name, contact, and medical history for treatment. Do you consent?" — in their preferred language. OTP sent to mobile to confirm identity.
DPDP consent — your product owns this

5 Patient enters OTP → confirms consent
Patient enters OTP on the tablet. This is their digital signature on the consent. Timestamp, purpose, and patient identity all locked together.
consent = { patientKey: HMAC_SHA256(mobile), hospitalId: "H-MUMBAI-001", purposes: ["treatment", "insurance"], timestamp: "2026-04-12T09:34:00Z", hash: SHA256(above fields), status: "ACTIVE" }

6 My consent manager
Consent record written to your vault — immutable
SHA-256 hashed consent artifact stored. Consent status pushed back to HMS via webhook so the doctor's screen shows a green consent badge. Audit log entry written.
This is YOUR database — your liability


Flow from doctor POV

1 Doctor login as usual with the existing HMS no changes

2 Enters Patient Id to get info
The request comes to My consent Manager if the consent is provided doctor can view patient data otherwise data is will not be visible


Flow during emergency

1 Patient comes in emergency section

2 If the first time comer to hospital no need for otp verfication
if already registered user then all the consent is provided and registered as emergency and doctor id and other info is captured and stored

3 After the patient is moved to normal opd the consent is taken and is upadted


Other key points

DPO page
1 for complience check from the govt officer
2 to check the logs of any hospital
3 If any breach detected it is also reported

Hospital Administration
1 Can get reports of how many users have provided there consent
2 Can check audit trail of there hospital

Patient Page
1 Can login and view which all hospitals he has consented to
2 Can change the consent for each hospital seperatly
3 Can decide how the data is used and where



